According to an old legend with rice on the chessboard illustrates the exponential growth. There once lived in India a king named Sher Khan. During his reign, someone invented the game that is now called chess.
When the inventor, a wise man, came before him, the king said he wanted to give him a reward for this excellent invention. He was rich and powerful enough to grant him any wish, no matter how unusual.
When the man came before the king again the next day, he asked for a single grain of rice on the first square of the chessboard. The king laughed and asked him if that was really all he could ask for? The man replied that he would like to have two grains of rice on the second square, four on the third, eight on the fourth, and sixteen on the fifth.
The king was angry because he thought the inventor thought him too poor or too stingy. He said he wanted to give him grains of rice for all the fields - twice as many grains on each field as on the field before it. But the wish was stupid, he said, because he could have given him much more. The king sent the inventor of the chess game out of the palace and made him wait at the gate. There they would bring him his rice.
In the evening, King Sher Khan remembered the strange request and asked if the inventor had received his reward yet. His advisors became nervous and explained that they had not been able to gather the reward - it was simply far too much, and the granaries would not contain enough rice to pay him.

Then the king became angry and scolded them that they should finally give the man his reward, after all, he had promised and the king's word was good.

Then his advisors and the court mathematician explained that there was not enough rice in the entire kingdom to fulfill the man's wish. Yes, that there was not so much rice in the whole world. If he wanted to keep his word, he would have to buy all the land in the world, turn it into rice fields, and even have the oceans drained as arable land in order to plant enough rice.
